README.md, before:

# PacVim
## Created by Celeste Morton, Drew Peterson, Lara Bjork, and Michael Wells, February 3-6, 2020
### Project Description

This project was completed as a team assignment at the conclusion of a seven-week Ruby class at Epicodus.

Our goal was to make learning VIM less intimidating. We chose to develop a game that would help users learn VIM commands.

### Specifications
1. A user should be able to navigate a maze using **h, j, k, l**, which are the VIM commands for left, down, up, and right, respectively.

2. A user can move along surfaces LIKE THIS BUT NOT THAT.

3. A game ends when the GAME AVATAR comes in contact with the VILLAIN or when the player hits either **esc** or **q** to quit the game.

4. SAY MORE ABOUT GAME LEVELS/OPTIONS IF ANY.


### Technologies Used
Ruby 2.6.5, Gosu, Bundler

Project was written using MacOS. No other operating systems were tested.

### Project Setup instructions
Unless otherwise indicated, these commands will all be entered in your terminal window.
1. Ensure that you have the correct version of Ruby installed.
2. Install Bundler if you do not already have it by running **gem install bundler** in the terminal.
3. MacOS users: to install Gosu, start by installing **Homebrew** and running **brew install sdl2**. For Windows, Linux, or Raspbarian/Raspberry Pi, see https://github.com/gosu/gosu/wiki
4. Clone the project locally from github (LINK HERE).
5. Run **gem install gosu**.
6. Run **bundle install** to manage gems; if you make additional changes to the Gemfile, you will need to run this command again.
7. Enter **ruby app.rb**, which should open a Gosu window that shows the game's welcome screen.

### Game Play
1. Click the space bar to enter the game.
2. Navigate your character through the game maze with using **h, j, k, l**, which are the VIM commands for left, down, up, and right, respectively.
3. ADD MORE IF WE HAVE DIFFERENT GAME OPTIONS?

### Sources and Inspiration
SAY MORE ABOUT THINGS THAT WE USED / REFERENCED

Goose honk: https://www.myinstants.com/instant/goose-honk-44161/

CONFIRM Background music: http://www.orangefreesounds.com/8-punk-8-bit-music/

If something doesn't display correctly or goes wrong somehow, please contact us at INSERT ALL OF OUR EMAIL ADDRESSES <lara.m.bjork@gmail.com> and we will do our best to troubleshoot for you.



### Known Issues and Limitations
* No known bugs. UPDATE AS NEEDED

### Where to Find This Project
LINK HERE

### License
This software is licensed under the MIT license.

Copyright (c) 2020 Celeste Morton, Drew Peterson, Lara Bjork, and Michael Wells

Commit message:

add success sound for collecting cherry

README.md, after:

# PacVim
## Created by Celeste Morton, Drew Peterson, Lara Bjork, and Michael Wells, February 3-6, 2020
### Project Description

This project was completed as a team assignment at the conclusion of a seven-week Ruby class at Epicodus.

Our goal was to make learning VIM less intimidating. We chose to develop a game that would help users learn VIM commands.

### Specifications
1. A user should be able to navigate a maze using **h, j, k, l**, which are the VIM commands for left, down, up, and right, respectively.

2. A user can move along surfaces LIKE THIS BUT NOT THAT.

3. A game ends when the GAME AVATAR comes in contact with the VILLAIN or when the player hits either **esc** or **q** to quit the game.

4. SAY MORE ABOUT GAME LEVELS/OPTIONS IF ANY.


### Technologies Used
Ruby 2.6.5, Gosu, Bundler

Project was written using MacOS. No other operating systems were tested.

### Project Setup instructions
Unless otherwise indicated, these commands will all be entered in your terminal window.
1. Ensure that you have the correct version of Ruby installed.
2. Install Bundler if you do not already have it by running **gem install bundler** in the terminal.
3. MacOS users: to install Gosu, start by installing **Homebrew** and running **brew install sdl2**. For Windows, Linux, or Raspbarian/Raspberry Pi, see https://github.com/gosu/gosu/wiki
4. Clone the project locally from github (LINK HERE).
5. Run **gem install gosu**.
6. Run **bundle install** to manage gems; if you make additional changes to the Gemfile, you will need to run this command again.
7. Enter **ruby app.rb**, which should open a Gosu window that shows the game's welcome screen.

### Game Play
1. Click the space bar to enter the game.
2. Navigate your character through the game maze with using **h, j, k, l**, which are the VIM commands for left, down, up, and right, respectively.
3. ADD MORE IF WE HAVE DIFFERENT GAME OPTIONS?

### Sources and Inspiration
SAY MORE ABOUT THINGS THAT WE USED / REFERENCED
Guidance from https://guides.railsgirls.com/ruby-game

Goose honk: https://www.myinstants.com/instant/goose-honk-44161/

Success chime: http://www.orangefreesounds.com/success-sound-effect/

CONFIRM Background music: http://www.orangefreesounds.com/8-punk-8-bit-music/

"Winners don't use drugs" https://www.spriters-resource.com/arcade/bustamovepuzzlebobble/sheet/14029/

Goose was drawn in piskelapp.com, using this sprite sheet as inspiration https://www.spriters-resource.com/custom_edited/untitledgoosegamecustoms/sheet/122248/. Untitled Goose Game

If something doesn't display correctly or goes wrong somehow, please contact us at INSERT ALL OF OUR EMAIL ADDRESSES <lara.m.bjork@gmail.com> and we will do our best to troubleshoot for you.



### Known Issues and Limitations
* No known bugs. UPDATE AS NEEDED

### Where to Find This Project
LINK HERE

### License
This software is licensed under the MIT license.

Copyright (c) 2020 Celeste Morton, Drew Peterson, Lara Bjork, and Michael Wells
